Add cli-reference page for "dfx generate" (#626)
dfinity/docs: modules/developers-guide/pages/cli-reference/dfx-generate.adoc

= dfx generate

Use the `+dfx generate+` command to generate canister type declarations for supported programming languages.

> Currently, `+dfx generate+` support four languages: Motoko, Candid, JavaScript, TypeScript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, `+dfx generate+` supports four languages: Motoko, Candid, JavaScript, and TypeScript.
```

You can use this command to generate type declarations for all canisters
that are defined for a project in the project's `+dfx.json+` configuration file or a specific canister.

Note that you can only run this command from within the project directory structure.
For example, if your project name is `+hello_world+`, your current working directory must be the `+hello_world+` top-level project directory or one of its subdirectories.

The `+dfx generate+` command looks for the configuration under the `+declarations+` section of a canister in the `+dfx.json+` configuration file.

== Basic usage

[source,bash]
----
dfx generate [canister_name]
----

== Flags

You can use the following optional flags with the `+dfx generate+` command.

[width="100%",cols="<32%,<68%",options="header"]
|===
|Flag |Description

|`+-h+`, `+--help+` |Displays usage information.

|`+-V+`, `+--version+` |Displays version information.
|===

== Arguments

You can specify the following arguments for the `+dfx generate+` command.

[width="100%",cols="<36%,<64%",options="header"]
|===

|Argument |Description

> |`+canister_name+` |Specifies the name of the canister you want to generate type declarations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`+canister_name+` |Specifies the name of the canister for which to generate type declarations.
```

The canister name must match at least one name that you have configured in the `+canisters+` section of the `+dfx.json+` configuration file for your project.

> If you don't specify this argument, all canisters declared in `+dfx.json+` will get types declarations generated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't specify this argument, `+dfx generate+` will generate type declarations for all canisters declared in `+dfx.json+`.
```

|===

== Configuration

> The behavior of `+dfx generate+` is controlled by `+dfx.json+` configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The behavior of `+dfx generate+` is controlled by the `+dfx.json+` configuration file.
```

Under `+dfx.json+` → `+canisters+` → `+<canister_name>+`, you can add a `+declarations+` section.

> In which, you can specify following fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, you can specify following fields:
```

> In this section, you can specify following fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, you can specify the following fields:
```

|`+bindings+` |List of languages to generate type declarations. Options are `+"js", "ts", "did", "mo"+`. Default is `+["js", "ts", "did"]+`.

|`+env_override+` |String that will replace `+process.env.{canister_name_uppercase}_CANISTER_ID+` in the `+src/dfx/assets/language_bindings/canister.js+` template.

|===

Outputs from `+dfx generate+`:

[width="100%",cols="<32%,<68%",options="header"]
|===
|Language |File

|`+JavaScript(js)+` |`+index.js+` and `+<canister_name>.did.js+`

|`+TypeScript(ts)+` |`+<canister_name>.did.ts+`

|`+Candid(did)+` |`+<canister_name>.did+`

|`+Motoko(mo)+` |`+<canister_name>.mo+`
|===

== Examples

[source,json]
----
include::example$sample-generate-dfx.json[]
----

Note that the file name and path to the programs on your file system must match the information specified in the `+dfx.json+` configuration file.

In this example, the `+hello_world+` canister itself is written in Motoko. The `+declarations+` section specifies that type declarations for all four languages will be generated and stored at `+src/declarations/+`.

[source,bash]
----
dfx generate hello_world
----

> Since there is only one canister in `+dfx.json+`, you can call `+dfx generate+` without argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since there is only one canister in `+dfx.json+`, you can call `+dfx generate+` without an argument.
```

> Since there is only one canister in `+dfx.json+`, you can call `+dfx generate+` without argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since there is only one canister in `+dfx.json+`, calling `+dfx generate+` without an argument will have the same effect as the above command.  If there were multiple canisters defined in `+dfx.json+`, this would generate type declarations for all defined canisters.
```
